

# Gamification API REST

# 1 Implementation

# 2 Test

 ## Cucumber Tests

 The tests of the API are launchable using the command `mvn clean test`
 We created different Cucumber scenarios in `.feature` files for each endpoints in order to test their behavior and to see if the correct status code is being returned after a `POST` or a `GET` request in these endpoints
 The definitions of the steps used in the different Cucumber scenarios created are located tn the package 'steps' of the test folder. Each step is defined with the help of bottom-up generated functions (generated by swagger and the api-spec.yaml) that are in the DefaultApi.

 ## JMeter Test

To perform load testing on our API, we created a JMeter endpoint test plan, that performs requests (`POST`, `GET` or both depending on the endpoint) on each of the different endpoint of our API. For POST request, we send a JSON payload to the endpoint using a HTTP header manager. The requests are performed in the logical order of usage of our API, ie, first, we register a new application, then we list all the existing applications etc ... We check that the correct status code is returned with a response assertion and we check the content of the JSON payload we get as a response (when there is one) with JSON assertions: Each JSON assertion make sure of the existence of a JSON path that is supposed to be in the response payload (for example $..applicationName). The results of the load test are at the end presented as a result tree and a report for each HTTP request performed.


# 3 Functionality
All the endpoint of the API works and you can register, with the endpoint ``/registrations`` an application to obtain an ``API-KEY`` or recover it with the endpoint ``/auth``. You need this ``API-KEY`` in the header to perform the others action because it's with it that we can recongnize the registered app.

Endpoint : ``/registrations``

Request who can be performed :

``GET`` : List of the application registered in the Gamification API

``POST`` : Add a new application in the Gamification API and return the linked API-KEY

Endpoint : ``/auth``

Request who can be performed :

``POST`` : Send the name of the application at the endpoint to obtain the linked api-key.

You can create ladders, and badges with the endpoints ``/ladders`` and ``/badges``. Don't forget for the ladders you need to start at the level 0 and it's progressive, 0->1->2->3 etc...

Endpoint : ``/ladders``

Request who can be performed :

``GET`` : To obtain the list of the ladder of the application

``POST`` : Add a new ladder of the application

Endpoint : ``/badges``

Request who can be performed :

``GET`` : Obtain the badge list recorded to the application

``POST`` : Add a new badge in the list for the application

You can create rules via the endpoint ``/rules`` with their rewards, experience for the level or/and badges, who will be readed and executed by the endpoint ``/events/``. The user is automaticaly create when ``/events/`` is called if the user already exist he jumps this step.

Endpoint : ``/rules``

Request who can be performed :

``GET`` : To Obtain the list of the rules created by an application

``POST`` : Create a new rule for the application

Endpoint : ``/events/``

Request who can be performed :

``POST`` : Send an event to the API-REST who will deal with it and apply the right rule

The endpoint for get information of an user, his history of point etc... are functional and you can call it . The only method on this endpoints is ``GET``

Endpoint : ``/users/{id}``

Endpoint : ``/users/{id}/awardedBadgeHistory``

Endpoint : ``/users/{id}/awardedPointHistory``

Endpoint : ``/users/top10bypoint``

# 4 Build and run

## 4.1 Manual

For development purposes, you should go in `gamification-impl` and run `mvn spring-boot:run` which will make Swagger available at [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).

## 4.2 Automatic

For ease of use with [amt-project-1](https://github.com/AMT-Long-Du-Zboub/amt-project-1), you can use the `run_gamification.sh` script which will get the database IP address and make the gamification engine use it.

NOTE: make sure to have deployed the Docker stack beforehand (`./run.sh` in amt-project-1).

You can use the [Adminer page](http://localhost:8081) to access the database contents from a Web page.

# 5 Database link and access

Our engine directly talks to an **existing** database named `amt2`, so ensure this exists on the target database server beforehand.

Simply issue:

```
DROP DATABASE IF EXISTS amt2;
CREATE DATABASE amt2;
```

NOTE: the database hostname/IP should be set in the `MYSQL_HOST` environment variable. For instance:

```
export MYSQL_HOST=127.0.0.1
```
